---
layout: post
title: Books Read in 2020
---

I read 27 books in 2020. Mostly science fiction, followed by software
development, and productivity.

*Raising Lions* had the biggest impact on my life this year. This book teaches
how to effectively discipline toddlers to prevent behavior disorders. It really
works.

*The Nature of Order* was the most challenging. This book describes 15
properties present in nature and living structures:

1. Levels of Scale
1. Strong Centers
1. Boundaries
1. Alternating Repetition
1. Positive Space
1. Good Shape
1. Local Symmetries
1. Deep Interlock and Ambiguity
1. Contrast
1. Gradients
1. Roughness
1. Echoes
1. The Void
1. Simplicity and Inner Calm
1. Not-separateness

*There Is No Antimemetics Division* was the most unique. The story is about an
agency which combats interdimensional beings while their memory is constantly
being erased.

## Fiction

*His Dark Materials: The Subtle Knife by Philip Pullman*

*His Dark Materials: The Amber Spyglass by Philip Pullman*

*Shogun by James Clavell*

## Science Fiction

*Exhalation: Stories by Ted Chiang*

*Tomorrow and Tomorrow by Charles Sheffield*

*Ball Lightning by Liu Cixin*

*I, Robot by Isaac Asimov*

*Dragon's Egg by Robert L. Forward*

*Dark Matter by Blake Crouch*

*Caves of Steel by Isaac Asimov*

*The Naked Sun by Isaac Asimov*

*The Robots of Dawn by Isaac Asimov*

*There Is No Antimemetics Division by qntm*

*The Metamorphosis of Prime Intellect: a novel of the singularity by Roger Williams*

## Software

*Web Scalability for Startup Engineers by Artur Ejsmont*

*Clean Architecture by Robert C. Martin*

*Building Microservices: Designing Fine-Grained Systems by Sam Newman*

*The Go Programming Language by Alan Donovan and Brian Kernighan*

*Head First Design Patterns by Eric Freeman, Bert Bates*

*Game Programming Patterns by Robert Nystrom*

## Business

*An Insider's Guide to Building a Successful Consulting Practice by Bruce Katcher and Adam Snyder*

*The Freelancer's Bible by Sara Horowitz and Toni Sciarra Poynter*

## Productivity & Self-Help

*The War of Art: Break Through the Blocks & Win Your Inner Creative Battles by Steven Pressfield*

*The Millionaire Fastlane: Crack the Code to Wealth and Live Rich for a Lifetime! by M.J. DeMarco*

*No More Mr. Nice Guy by Robert A. Glover*

## Parenting

*Raising Lions by Joe Newman*

## Design

*The Phenomenon of Life: The Nature of Order by Christopher W. Alexander*
