---
title: Books Read in 2020
slug: books-2020
layout: post
---

I read 27 books in 2020. Mostly science fiction, followed by software
development, and productivity. Here's a brief summary of the top 3 books I read
this year as well as the full list.

## Highlights

_Raising Lions_ was the most useful book this year. It describes methods to
effectively discipline children with compassion to prevent behavioral
disorders. After reading this book, I began to use frequent yet short 1-2
minute timeouts immediately after bad behavior occurred. This turned out to be
highly effective. I recommended this book for new parents.

_The Nature of Order_ was the most challenging. The premise of this book is
that beauty is objective and comes from properties which are present in nature
and living structures. The book describes 15 geometric properties discovered
through empircal research in great visual detail.

_There Is No Antimemetics Division_ was the most unique. The story is about an
organization which must defend the world against highly unusual
interdimensional creatures. The creature in this story has the unique ability
to erase itself from the memory of anyone who becomes aware of its existence.
Part of the [SCP Foundation][scp] universe.

[scp]: https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/

Here's the full list in no particular order:

## Fiction

-   His Dark Materials: The Subtle Knife by Philip Pullman
-   His Dark Materials: The Amber Spyglass by Philip Pullman
-   Shogun by James Clavell

## Science Fiction

-   Exhalation: Stories by Ted Chiang
-   Tomorrow and Tomorrow by Charles Sheffield
-   Ball Lightning by Liu Cixin
-   I, Robot by Isaac Asimov
-   Dragon's Egg by Robert L. Forward
-   Dark Matter by Blake Crouch
-   Caves of Steel by Isaac Asimov
-   The Naked Sun by Isaac Asimov
-   The Robots of Dawn by Isaac Asimov
-   There Is No Antimemetics Division by qntm
-   The Metamorphosis of Prime Intellect: a novel of the singularity by Roger Williams

## Software

-   Web Scalability for Startup Engineers by Artur Ejsmont
-   Clean Architecture by Robert C. Martin
-   Building Microservices: Designing Fine-Grained Systems by Sam Newman
-   The Go Programming Language by Alan Donovan and Brian Kernighan
-   Head First Design Patterns by Eric Freeman, Bert Bates
-   Game Programming Patterns by Robert Nystrom

## Business

-   An Insider's Guide to Building a Successful Consulting Practice by Bruce Katcher and Adam Snyder
-   The Freelancer's Bible by Sara Horowitz and Toni Sciarra Poynter

## Productivity & Self-Help

-   The War of Art: Break Through the Blocks & Win Your Inner Creative Battles by Steven Pressfield
-   The Millionaire Fastlane: Crack the Code to Wealth and Live Rich for a Lifetime! by M.J. DeMarco
-   No More Mr. Nice Guy by Robert A. Glover

## Parenting

-   Raising Lions by Joe Newman

## Design

-   The Phenomenon of Life: The Nature of Order by Christopher W. Alexander
